SHRI CHANDRASHEKHARENDRA SARASWATI SHAASTRA VIDYA STHAANAM – 152,  
Maxworth Nagar, Kovilambakkam, Chennai – 600 029  
 
An institution of excellence organized and supported by the Prof. S Soundararajan Public Charitable 
Trust  
50, 1st Avenue, Shastri Nagar, Chennai – 600 020. Phone: 94447 02097, 98400 45776  
 
 
About the Founder  
The Shri ChandrashekharendraSaraswati Shastra Vidya Sthaanam is an institution of excellence run under 
the aegis of the Prof S Soundararajan  Public Charitable  Trust. The Trust is set up in memory of Prof S 
Soundarrajan and is inspired by his ideals and motivations. Prof. S Sounderarajan had been a student and 
teacher of Chemistry and served as Professor in the Indian Institute of Science. Prof. Soundararajan and his 
wife SmtJambakavalli had been deeply inspired by the ideals and teachings of Mahaperiyaval, Shri 
ChandrashekharendraSaraswati Swami, the great seer of the Kanchi Math. Prof. Soundararajan was also an 
ardent student of Sanskrit and was inclined towards the study of Shaastric literature.  
 
Beginning of the Patashala  
Mahaperiyaval during his earlier days had discussed with Prof. Soundararajan  specific ideals related to 
starting of a University for Shastric studies. His Holiness wanted the traditional method of teaching the 
Shastras to be preserved. Prof. Soundararajan and his wife Smt. J ambakavalli had sought to devote their 
life and efforts to the realisation of this ideal. The Trust is committed to progress on these ideals and has 
establish ed a center for excellence for Shastric studies.   
 
The Trust is fortunate to be guided on this path by MahamahopadhyayaBrahmashri Acharya Mani Dravid 
Shastri, who is its Principal Advisor and Guide. Based on the ideals and directions of Mahaperiyaval, a 
detailed syllabus of important texts has been identified in the Shastric subjects of Nyaya, Vedanta and 
PurvaMimamsa with an intent to include further topics like Vyakarana, Veda Bhashyam and other subjects.  
 
Vision and Mission  
The initial focus of the Trust, through the Shastra Vidya Stha anam is to continue the traditional teaching 
processes for Shastric  studies among deserving students who have demonstrated inclination towards the 
study of the Veda and its attendant literature. The scheme of study is aimed at providing the student with 
insight and knowledge of the specific Sha astram after a general period of initiation. It is expected that the 
students will be able to meet the demands of the qualifying exams conducted by the Kanchee Veda 

Vedanta Shastra Sabha, Tenali and the Veda Sh aastropabrimhana Parishad, Ahmednagar, both of which 
are considered to be important standard bearers in the contemporary times for the evaluation of 
attainment of scholarship in the Shastras.  
 
Initial Phase  of the Patashala  
The initial faculty for the active task of teaching and imparting the subjects consists of Brahmashri 
Shreehari Dhaygude, (R igveda Adhyayi, Vedanta Ratna, MA in Navya Nyaya and MA in Vedanta) and 
Brahmashri C Hariharan (Krishnayajurveda Adhyayi, MA in Mimamsa and pursuing PhD in Mimamsa).  
Few  students have been benefited by the activities of the Trust over the past few years. Students have 
been imparted instruction in Vyakaranam, Nyaya and Mimaamsaa and some students have started 
appearing successfully in exams conducted by various organisations. After that Brahmasri. Naveen Sharma 
was appointed on 2022 a s a Nyaya Teacher at patashala.  
 
Present Status of the Patashala  
At present, the Pā ṭhaśālā has two teachers, three regular students, and two online students pursuing 
studies in Nyāya Śāstra. The Pā ṭhaśālā conducts weekly Vākyārtha Sabhās every Sunday. So far, 181 Sabhās 
have been successfully conducted, with the participation of many vidvans and students from various 
institutions. In addition, the Pā ṭhaśālā regularly organizes academic workshops, including sessions on 
Nyāyabodhinī and Vyādhikara ṇa in Nyāya Śāstra, as well as the Vyavahāra Adhyāya of the Yājñavalkya 
Smṛti in Dharmaśāstra. Eminent scholars such as Brahmaśrī Manidravid Śāstrigal and Brahmaśrī 
Devanāthan Swāmy have visited the Pā ṭhaśālā and enriched the students through their erudite teachings.  
 
Our Teachers  
At present, there are two teachers at the Pā ṭhaśālā. Sri Veeraraghavan holds an M.A. in Nyāya and is 
currently pursuing a Ph.D. He is also appearing for the Tenali examinations in Nyāya under the guidance of 
Brahmaśrī Naveen Sharma. Sri Shreeram Mule holds a B.A. in Nyāya and is currently pursuing an M.A. in 
Vedānta. He is also appearing for the Tenali examinations in Nyāya under the guidance of Brahmaśrī 
Vāchaspati Shastri Joshi.  
Proposed Activities and Future Plans  
Considering the prevalence of the virtual mode of teaching and given the convenience of students and 
teachers, it is proposed to reach out to deserving students in Veda P aathashalas and elsewhere to enrol in 
fresh batches of instruction in various topics of Sh aastric studies. The Trust will facilitate the provision of 

continuous instruction  through online means  as well as direct contact classes at regular intervals between 
the teachers and students so as to ensure effective education. Examinations, both oral and written will be 
conducted to ensure that the students and teachers understand the progress. The Trust  will also disburse 
attractive scholarships to students who demonstrate their ability to meet specific attainments of learning 
and understanding. Additionally, the Trust will also provide attractive monetary Sambhavanas to its 
students of who successfully complete the course of study for each Sh aastram. The Trust will also provide 
study materials to the students.  
 
The Trust requests all like minded individuals and paathashalas to  participate in this effort so that the 
stated ideals are attained.   
 
 
 

